---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "maas_machine Resource - terraform-provider-maas"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Provides a resource to manage MAAS machines.
---

# maas_machine (Resource)

Provides a resource to manage MAAS machines.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "maas_machine" "virsh_vm1" {
  power_type = "virsh"
  power_parameters = jsonencode({
    power_address = "qemu+ssh://ubuntu@10.113.1.26/system"
    power_id      = "test-vm1"
  })
  pxe_mac_address = "52:54:00:89:f5:3e"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `power_parameters` (String, Sensitive) Serialized JSON string containing the parameters specific to the `power_type`. See [Power types](https://maas.io/docs/api#power-types) section for a list of the available power parameters for each power type.
- `power_type` (String) A power management type (e.g. `ipmi`).
- `pxe_mac_address` (String) The MAC address of the machine's PXE boot NIC.

### Optional

- `architecture` (String) The architecture type of the machine. Defaults to `amd64/generic`.
- `domain` (String) The domain of the machine. This is computed if it's not set.
- `hostname` (String) The machine hostname. This is computed if it's not set.
- `min_hwe_kernel` (String) The minimum kernel version allowed to run on this machine. Only used when deploying Ubuntu. This is computed if it's not set.
- `pool` (String) The resource pool of the machine. This is computed if it's not set.
- `timeouts` (Block, Optional) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--timeouts))
- `zone` (String) The zone of the machine. This is computed if it's not set.

### Read-Only

- `block_devices` (List of Object) A list of block devices attached to the machine. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--block_devices))
- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `network_interfaces` (Set of String) A set of MAC addresses of network interfaces attached to the machine.

<a id="nestedblock--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `create` (String)


<a id="nestedatt--block_devices"></a>
### Nested Schema for `block_devices`

Read-Only:

- `id_path` (String)
- `model` (String)
- `name` (String)
- `size_gigabytes` (Number)

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

The [`terraform import` command](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/commands/import) can be used, for example:

```shell
# MAAS machines can be imported using one of the attributes: system ID, hostname, or FQDN. e.g.
$ terraform import maas_machine.virsh_vm1 vm1.maas
```
