---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "maas_node_script Resource - terraform-provider-maas"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Provides a resource to manage MAAS node scripts. It expects a script with metadata defined only embedded in the script, and it computes them in the Terraform state after the resource creation. Details about script metadata can be found in MAAS docs, ref: https://maas.io/docs/reference-commissioning-scripts
---

# maas_node_script (Resource)

Provides a resource to manage MAAS node scripts. It expects a script with metadata defined only embedded in the script, and it computes them in the Terraform state after the resource creation. Details about script metadata can be found in MAAS docs, ref: https://maas.io/docs/reference-commissioning-scripts

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "maas_node_script" "tf_node_script" {
  script = base64encode(file("${path.module}/scripts/dummy.sh"))
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `script` (String) The node script content encoded in base64.

### Read-Only

- `apply_configured_networking` (Boolean) Whether the provided network configuration is applied before the node script runs.
- `description` (String) A description of what the node script does.
- `destructive` (Boolean) Whether or not the node script overwrites data on any drive on the running system.
- `for_hardware` (List of String) A list of modalias, PCI IDs, and/or USB IDs the node script will automatically run on.
- `hardware_type` (String) Defines what type of hardware the node script is associated with. May be `cpu`, `memory`, `storage`, `network`, `gpu`, or `node`.
- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `may_reboot` (Boolean) Whether or not the node script may reboot the system while running.
- `name` (String) The name of the node script.
- `packages` (String) Dictionary of packages to be installed or extracted before running the node script.
- `parallel` (String) Whether the node script may be run in parallel with other scripts. May be `disabled` to run by itself, `instance` to run along scripts with the same name, or `any` to run along any script.
- `parameters` (String) The parameters the node script accepts.
- `recommission` (Boolean) Whether builtin commissioning scripts should be rerun after successfully running this node script.
- `results` (String) The results the node script will return on completion.
- `script_type` (String) Defines when the node script should be used: `commissioning` or `testing` or `release`.
- `tags` (List of String) A set of tag names assigned to the node script.
- `timeout` (String) How long the node script is allowed to run before failing. `0` means unlimited time. The time is represented in the following format: `[DD] [[HH:]MM:]ss[.uuuuuu]`
- `title` (String) The title of the node script.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
# Node scripts can be imported using the name or ID. e.g.
$ terraform import maas_node_script.tf_node_script tf-node-script
```
